##  Basics of the Favor System
The Favor System is the name of the "engine" so-to-speak that *Metal* runs off of. Most games' system would be as simple as "d20," but some are "d20, roll under" or a "dice-pool" system. The Favor System is the modular, under-the-hood, workings of the TTRPG that can be adapted into other games (with enough work). Not all of the mechanics of this game are part *of* the Favor System; the mechanics that are not are wholly unique to this game, and, in theory, would not appear in their same form in other Favor System games. The core components of the Favor System are the dice mechanics, action structure and player mechanic layouts. These various components are briefly summarized below.

### Dice Structure
The Favor System uses 3d6 for nearly all rolls, with the target number being static and the die result needing to be **lower** than the target number. This set of 3d6 can be changed by the game's variance system (think Advantage/Disadvantage in D&D5e.) Rolling *with favor* (or with advantage) lets the player roll 2d6 instead, and rolling *without favor* (or with disadvantage) lets the player roll 4d6 instead. This variance mechanic is, in my opinion, the most unique aspect of the system, and this is the reason the system is named for it. The dice mechanics are explored further in the [[Dice Overview]].

### Action Structure 
The Favor System uses a simple set of mechanics for governing *timed action*, which is any scene that constitutes the players having limited time to perform actions, such as combat. During sequences of timed action, a player can move up to their Speed (or equivalent statistic), perform two Actions, and take one Reaction. A typical Action would include firing a Weapon, and a Reaction might be something that allows the player to attack out of turn. More details can be found in the [[Actions Overview]].

### Player Mechanic Layout
Part of the Favor System is how it defines the relationship between a mechanic and its associated power-progression. This idea is heavily inspired by usage-based progression from video games such as Morrowind and Oblivion, in which the player unlocks new powers (or "perks") for an ability or skill via usage. The Favor System changes this slightly to be based on *training* instead, in order to prevent the players from having to book-keep how often they use skills or abilities. A practical explanation of this, for example, would be the Training-Perk progression of a player's School of Arcana: when Player A gains a new training level in his School, he gains a numerical bonus of some form; perhaps he gains a +2 bonus to damage with spells from that school, and then he gains the perk associated with that training level. This is to avoid players needing to develop things like a skill and ***then*** get that cool perk they wanted two levels ago but did not meet the requirements for. Some mechanics within a Favor System game might forgo this direct relationship for things that have no real progression to them, such as a background or player species. 

